@document.meta
title: opts
description: Options file for neovim
authors: Nils
created: 2023-09-02
version: 0.0.1
tangle: ~/.config/nvim/lua/opts.lua
@end

* Locals
  @code lua
  local opt = vim.opt
  local cmd = vim.api.nvim_command

  -- opt.timeoutlen = 200
  @end

* Text
  @code lua
  opt.wrap = false
  opt.clipboard = "unnamedplus"
  opt.scrolloff = 999
  opt.virtualedit = "block"
  opt.inccommand = "split"
  opt.colorcolumn = "80" 
  @end

* Theme
  @code lua
  opt.syntax = "ON"
  opt.termguicolors = true
  cmd('colorscheme gruvbox')
  vim.api.nvim_set_hl(0, "ColorColumn", { bg = '#202020' })
  @end
  Set syntax highlighting on and activate termguicolor.
  More {:gruvbox:}[Gruvbox options].

* Folds
  @code lua
  opt.foldlevel = 9
  @end
  Open all folds up to level 9 automaticly.

* Search
  @code lua
  opt.ignorecase = true
  opt.smartcase = true
  opt.incsearch = true
  opt.hlsearch = true
  @end
  Ignore case in search and override ignorecase if search has capitals. Also use incremental search and highlight search matches.

* Whitespaces
  @code lua
  opt.expandtab = true
  opt.tabstop = 4
  opt.shiftwidth = 4
  opt.softtabstop = 0
  @end
  Use "\\t" as tabs (no spaces).
  Shifts a width of 4 when commands like ">>" "<<" "==" are used.
  Sets number of spaces before tabs are used to number of tabstop.
  Sets number of spaces befor "\\t" is used to 4.

* Splits
  @code lua
  opt.splitright = true
  @end
  Places new window to right of current window.

* Treesitter
  @code lua
  vim.wo.foldmethod = 'expr'
  vim.wo.foldexpr = 'nvim_treesitter#foldexpt()'
  @end
  No clue what that does!

* Neorg
  @code lua
  opt.conceallevel = 2
  vim.g.table_mode_corner="|"
  @end
  Set conceallevel to 2 so that links are not shown

* CMD
  @code lua
  opt.completeopt = { 'menuone', 'noselect', 'noinsert' }
  opt.shortmess = opt.shortmess + { c = true }
  vim.api.nvim_set_option('updatetime', 300)
  @end
  - menuone: popup even when there's only one match
  - noinsert: Do not insert text until a selection is made
  - noselect: Do not select, force to select one from the menu
  - shortmess: avoid showing extra messages when using completion
  - updatetime: set updatetime for CursorHold

  @code lua
  cmd([[
	  set signcolumn=yes
	  autocmd CursorHold * lua vim.diagnostic.open_float(nil, { focusable = false })
  ]])
  @end
  - Fixed column for diagnostics to appear
  - Show auto diagnostic popup on cursor hover_range
  - Goto previus / next diagnostic warnign / error
  - Show inlay_hints more frequently



